It’s that time again, and I’m back even stronger. Since my last post, I have climbed from AA2 to Masters, primarily on the back of Seraph and Aggro Forest (it should be mentioned Aggro Forest was only played at the beginning of the expansion, and on the current patch I have only played Seraph). As this will be my final post for Seraph before rotation hits, this will be rather extensive. I should note that I will only be going discussing in the context of the current (post Sibyl nerf) patch.

First, I'd like to shamelessly plug give a shout out to Dawnbreakers, the Shadowverse team that I joined! The team is pretty nice and has helped me fine tune my list as well as suggested cards to put on the tech list. Here’s a link to the team’s discord: https://discord.gg/BjeFkVS

Here is the decklist in a screenshot, in Bagoum, and in Shadowverse Portal.

Here is an excel sheet where I track my winrates and keep an updated list of my deck: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1w4KSExMljJnySwPvdPyRfoyefknI-BvXs-14H6bfXoY/edit?usp=sharing

Winrates
Overall – 62-38, 62% winrate
Forest – 7-3, 70% winrate
Dragon – 13-7, 65% winrate
Shadow – 6-4, 60% winrate
Haven – 11-5, 69% winrate
Sword – 5-2, 71% winrate
Rune – 14-6, 70% winrate
Blood – 6-11, 35% winrate
As an outline, I will:

Discuss every card in my decklist
Go through a number of notable tech cards
Discuss the strengths of this deck
Discuss a general idea of how to play this deck
Discuss specific matchups that you may find in the current meta
Compare with Control Seraph, including a recent Masters’ control list
Decklist:
3x Sacred Plea – See Globe of Stairways.
3x Globe of Stairways – This is a card that is probably designed with Sacred Plea rotating out, but for a brief moment I can most definitely say that the combination of the two is absolutely absurd for Seraph. First of all, Plea and Globe are amazing 1pp plays that is played on a mostly inconsequential turn 1, and it can be weaved into plays to fill out pp. Plea was already considered incredible for carddraw, and now they have even more. Second, Globe acts like a soft tutor for Aria for turn2, and for Seraph in general. These two cards are THE draw engine for this deck and is what gives this deck life. It is the backbone, and with 3 of each, getting at least 1 early on is very likely.
3x Mainyu – Mainyu is the best 2pp drop for this deck in almost all matches. Mainyu alone causes significant pressure and allows you to begin the Tempo in Tempo Seraph. It can very easily snowball into 4+ chip damage going first since it cannot be removed unless you ram something into it. It has the potential to singlehandedly win Dshift matchup.
3x Hallowed Dogma – Card draw and combo piece. Knowing how to properly use Hallowed Dogma is integral to really knowing how to pilot this deck. Aggressively using dogma to pop Aria on turn 3 is a huge tempo push. Bringing Sacred Plea to 1 countdown at certain points of the game can be the right choice if you need to be drawing into certain cards (like March Hare’s Teatime, Themis’s Decree, or Seraph on the respective turns they need to be played). Bringing Plea down to 1 means that over the course of 2 turns, you’ll have drawn 5 cards versus 2, and that’s huge.
3x Blackened Scripture – This card is not just cheap removal, but it grants you access to very effective ways of dealing with popular cards such as Rune’s Magic Illusionist, Dragon’s Aiela, and most of Shadowcraft’s cards. There is little argument to be had here with how effective this card can be.
3x Beastcall Aria – There is a very good reason for why Beastcall Aria is such a ubiquitous card in Haven decks. While I have made the argument that Seraph could do without it before, I have never discredited how much tempo it could bring. And guess what, we’re running a Tempo Seraph deck this time. 2/1 storm and 4/4 body is crazy value for 2pp. And popping the amulet on turn 3 can even sometimes win you the game outright. Even when not played on turn 2, whenever the amulet pops, it begins to create a boardstate that can be very hard to answer, which is exactly what this deck can do.
2x Sister Initiate – Once upon a time this was Healing Prayer, but as this deck transition towards pressuring the opponent, Sister Initiate found much more value as it can help build a board while helping to countdown key amulets like Aria. It should be noted that dropping Sister Initiate on a raw board is probably the worst 3pp play you can possible manage, but the upsides of doubling as a body and a combo piece is more valuable than what Healing Prayer offers.
3x Temple Defender – Right now, I think Temple Defender is the best 3pp ward in the game. The alternative Grimnir serves a similar purpose, but Temple Defender is able to hard stop bats, fairies, and skeletons. Right now, I find that many Forest decks and Shadow decks will opt for wider boards with low damage, and Temple Defender is more than able to pull her weight by buying you an extra turn against these matchups.
2x Star Torrent – In general, you will find that Star Torrent is simply just a combo piece, however, it does double as fringe offensive pressure. The potential to swing boards efficiently, most notably against Forest, gives the card exceptional value. It can also be used to speed up multiple amulets during midgame, or it can be used to damage followers into banish zone. This card is aggressive combo piece with great flexibility, more so than Healing Prayer at least.
2x Priest of Cudgel – Cudgel finds his way back into this deck thanks to his ability to often trade 2-for-1, with the additional effect of crippling Shadow in general. While it is certainly important to have the option to 2-for-1, I keep Cudgel down to 2 because you’ll more often want to evolve more aggressively.
2x Dance of Death – 2 is a pretty good number for hard removal – enough to be reliable, but not so much to super brick you. This was once Acolyte’s Light to deal with Forest’s Beauty and the Beast, but I have decided that pushing for damage in most matchups is more important than teching for basically one matchup.
3x March Hare’s Teatime – This card is nuts. Nuts I say! I would say that there is a general consensus that this card is extremely strong. It spawns a sizeable 4/5 that can eventually spawn another, and it has a 3 damage evolve that can target face. The huge body, and versatile evolve makes this the best evolve in the deck. In general, I try to clear a follower with the rush, while using the 3 damage to target face to apply maximum pressure.
2x Winged Sentinel Garuda – Have you ever heard that March Hare’s Teatime into Garuda was a game winning combo? I have, and so I decided that it was so good and fit so well in this deck, that I included Garuda. Garuda provides incredible reach and combo potential with the amulets that you run. It is also not uncommon to use him to finish Seraph as you can opt to clear the turn after you drop Seraph (drop Turn 8, clear turn 9), and then you’ll only need 2 countdown removers which can then include Garuda (turn 10).
3x Themis’s Decree – The Board Wipe. Still Shadowverse’s premium removal bar none. This lets you wipe out huge boards, helps you stabilize when you don’t have the tempo advantage, and can open the way for turns before and after Seraph is dropped. There is nothing in the game that offers what Themis does to such a degree, which makes it integral to the control side of this deck.
1x Heresy’s Avatar – Easily the spiciest card in the list. First off, any more than 1 is useless. There will never be a time where dropping 2 is relevant, and that alone relegates him into being a 1 of. What he offers is extreme pressure given that you have been pressuring your opponent. On turn 7, if you have been playing the game as normal, then you probably have the enemy playing defensively, and probably either around 10hp, and/or you have board advantage. Dropping heresy almost always demands an answer to it, which opens the gate to a significant amount of opens like, instantly drawing 2 cards with Plea, instantly Aria, and letting Seraph pop with only 2 countdown removers. The caveat is that you need to have an evo point or to have the enemy at a significant disadvantage to make use of him so you really have to plan ahead.
2x Enstatued Seraph – The great angel that brings us victory. Praise be! I will note that, 3 Seraph is simply way too much and is asking to be bricked, especially in a deck where the wincon is split fairly evenly between Seraph and running the enemy down.
Cards I think you can tech out!
Sacred Plea – Alright So I know I said it’s good, but 6 cards is kind of a lot between Plea and Globe. I think Globe is better as it can pull things right away and helps thin your deck immediately for the next turn. You can maybe drop 1-2 Pleas.
Mainyu – If you take out Mainyu, it has to be for a really good side grade at least. Naosie and Unica are decent examples. I still think Mainyu is the best though.
Sister Initiate – I did say that this used to be Healing Prayer for a reason. Multi-amulet countdown reduction and some fringe healing is pretty okay. You can also put in another Star torrent. I suggest sidegrading into other countdown reducers as you don’t want to push yourself into an inconsistent Seraph win condition.
Temple Defender – Temple Defender is primarily a way to bridge into your more swingy turns. After 3pp, you amulets start popping, and you can do many 2-for-1s, that said, you could replace her and opt for more aggressive options.
Dance of Death – I think single target removal is great for this deck, especially since it often saves precious evo points. Dance of death helps tack on a little extra pressure, which makes it an overall good pick for the deck, however, there are other legitimate choices that can be taken out if you don’t think you need this flavor of removal.
Heresy’s Avatar – I know I wrote a huge paragraph on him, but playing him is not only tricky, but forces you as a player to play VERY proactively, which this deck does not always have to do. It’s like he comes into your hand and then you start thinking, “How can I make him work?” It starts to warp your play. It may be bias that I think he is good, and thus I choose to recognize that he can be a liability and my judgement is simply too clouded after playing hundreds of games with him.
Cards I think you can tech in!
Naoise – A powerful anti combo card with vanilla 2/2 stats. This card offers late game protection against many powerful finishers such as Roach, Dshift, and Storm Haven. Remember that the effect persists until your next turn, and does not require him to be on the field. I believe this is the meaningful sidegrade to Mainyu.
Luxwing Reno –This is the super, SUPER aggro 2pp drop. If they don’t have a spell, then she guarantees some clash damage. And on an evo turn where you don’t have Teatime, her evo will guarantee 2 damage after crashing into a follower. Her damage potential is high, but does not offer the stability of Mainyu. An interesting choice.
White Tiger – White Tiger if my favorite alternative to Temple Defender. Most of the time, the opponent will have at least a 2 attack minion out by the time it comes into play, the times where the enemy is relying on spells to deal with the board, you can steamroll them with a Mainyu-White Tiger one-two punch. It’s also a ward, so they have to go through it anyways. Not too shabby!
Execute/Acolyte’s Light – Execute can be used for pesky Elana amulets… and that might be it. You must really hate Elana if you tech it. Acolyte’s Light is the best alternative to Death of Dance as it allows you to deal with a Beauty and the Beast singlehandedly, as well as other cards like Frontguard General, Jormungand, Mordecai, and many other shenanigans people might need to pop their last words for. For reference, I ran Acolyte’s Light for half of my games and found it doing very well.
Tribunal of Good and Evil – It’s like a kind of cheaper execute. It’s relevant because removing wards earlier means more potential face damage. However, it does take up board space and it is very easy for this deck to run out of that. You also don’t want to be running too much removal as it is inherently reactive rather than proactive. It’s possible to run this since it’s so good, but I imagine it would be a little tricky. It also dilutes your amulet pool... so you have to really want to trends towards control if you include this.
Curate – Big body, great heal. She’s actually so massive that it might be worth putting her in despite not really pressuring the enemy. You would need to save an evo to effectively use her, but there is definitely a chance she gets put in as a stabilizing force just before the Seraph turn. However, I think you should be looking for ways to make the enemy go on the defensive instead.
Taurus the Great – Taurus is good for when you really want to emulate Storm Haven and pound the enemy to 0 HP. Having 1 (maybe replacing Heresy) grants you exceptional reach that should not be underappreciated.
Edit: Some have mentioned that this deck could perform even more aggressively, and I think it is possible, though I haven't tested it enough yet:

Birdkeeping Disciple – Birdkeeping Disciple is a very strong 4pp body that drops a Pinion amulet. Fitting her into the deck will increase the aggressiveness of the deck replacing what could have been a slow Cudgel/Temple Defender/Carddraw turn. Also, she does not dilute the amulet pool for Globe.

Dark Jeanne – Part board clear, but more importantly, part damage buff. Many of your cards like Tiger and Teatime are bulky and may survive a turn or two, which Dark Jeanne can buff. In addition, Pinions from both Aria and Birdkeeper can be evo-ed to take advantage of Jeanne reach potential. Well worth yet another consideration!

Tech Cards I do not like
A prevailing theme that you will notice in this section is that I advocate against anti-aggro tech. In general, you should be able to deal with most aggressive decks save for Aggro Blood which simply does too much damage too early, most of which is out of hand damage in the form of both storm and spells. I believe teching for Aggro Blood will drop your overall winrate against other decks too much to compensate.

Unicorn Dancer Unica – If you want to combat aggro, you can tech in Unica as she must be answered.
Snow White + Heavenly Hound – Snow White is no longer the absolute monster she once was. Offering only a measily 1 damage for 2pp initially, and only being able to evenly with both most 2 and 3pp followers, Snow White lacks much of the tempo power she had before and is now ultimately relegated to defensively clearing enemy 3pp wards or fairies. If you do run her, you’ll want to run Hound for the great combo they can pull off. That said, it is not only relatively slow and defensive for this kind of deck, but takes up 6 slots in your deck. Maybe you take it if you want to anti aggro…
Prism Priestess – With the advent of Globe and Plea in combination, I believe that the deck has enough draw power that Prism Priest is not necessary and should be kept out of the deck in favor of better cards.
Radiance Angel – The only world where I try to play Radiance Angel is the one where I tried to tech in 6+ cards to stop Aggro Blood. It’s not worth it. It’s not a tempo gain, and 4 attack after evo isn’t even that good man. This is as anti aggro as it gets, and it comes out on turn 5 - the March Hare’s Teatime turn. You really shouldn’t be sacrificing that turn!
Judge of Retribution – At 6pp, he offers a solid body, carddraw, and a 3hp Banish. He’s like a super Cudgel, but you know what a super cudgel doesn’t do? He doesn’t hit face. At the 6pp zone, what he offers is conditional control, and for me, it’s not enough.
Why this Seraph Works
Time for some Tempo Seraph 101. Class is in session! As you can see, this deck is very fundamentally different from traditional Control Seraph. I cut many heals, wards, and countdown reducers to produce a proactive deck that almost plays like Storm Haven minus any pinion generators. However, unlike Storm Haven, this deck has the potential to swap to control. This advantage is powerful.

Traditionally, when queuing into ranked and when you see Haven, you expect either Storm or Aegis. This list takes advantage of the fact that many cards overlap with Storm Haven. The moment Mainyu comes out, or when you use Hallowed dogma to pop Aria, or you start using evo to go face, the opponent assumes they will get run down, and they would be right half of the time - you have that potential. However, if they do manage to stabilize, they will very likely have burned significant resources to do so. And if they aren’t dead, the moment you decide that you can’t bring their hp to 0 over a few turns, and go towards control, it can and will cause confusion. By the time they’ve caught on, Seraph has already been dropped and it doesn’t matter if the enemy is at 10 or 20hp. Seraph will win (pls no Odin).

This psychological gameplay has actual function here because in many control and midrange matchups, the opponent can have the potential to mount an offensive, but under the assumption that they have a late game secured, they will opt to fight for board control since Storm Haven will run out of options. And with their hp lingering around 10-15 by turn 7, it would be the right decision if a Seraph didn’t blindside them. This is why aggressively evoing something like Mainyu has more merit than simply getting the enemy closer to 0hp. The more they believe that you are Storm Haven, the better off you are.

Not to mention, this deck is efficient, high-value, and stable. It’s got banish for some matchups, it’s got Aria and Teatime for value, it’s Themis to deal with buff boards, and it’s got Seraph for that one Control Blood who did nothing but heal the whole game. The deck curves well, and is resistant to bricking and can reliably mount an offensive by turn 5-7, thus why I call this deck Tempo Seraph.

How to Play the Deck
I will discuss specific matchups and mulligan later. In general, you will want to do your best to mulligan for a 1pp or 2pp play at the bare minimum, ideally both. In matchups other than Haven, you’ll want to drop Mainyu over Aria. You can take some damage, so always ALWAYS try to mount an offensive early. If they have a 2/2, ignore it and go to face. Don’t be afraid to use Hallowed Dogma to aggressively pop Arias, it’s also fine to use Sister Initiate to simply reduce Aria’s cooldown by 1 even if it doesn’t pop the amulet.

Around the 4-5pp zone, you need to begin deciding if you want to reach into the enemy health pool or not. The answer is usually yes, unless they have somehow simultaneously flooded their side with followers and efficiently answered everything you threw at them. Even if it leaves an enemy follower on board, it is well worth considering using Teatime’s evo to go face and just clear 1 follower. You can also bait evos and strange trades by using the Teatime amulet, but not using evo on it. This is mostly relevant if the enemy has nonthreatening followers or no followers at all on the board, and/or you have Garuda or another Teatime to use the evo on the following turn.

By turn 6-7, you should know how much reach you have. And if it’s not enough, then it’s time to start going on the ‘defensive’. Start clearing enemy followers, drop down Heresy, or use Themis; do whatever you have to do to get them to stop hitting your face. It usually looks like a continued offensive, but there are times when you will need to go from evoing Teatime and going face, to doing 2-for-1s.

It’s important to remember that you don’t have to proc Seraph on 9. Getting her down is the hard part. Controlling the board afterwards is usually pretty easy. Make sure that if your answer to the board leaves you with left over pp, then try to fish for countdown reducers first. For instance, if you plan to use Themis to clear the board, then first use Hallowed Dogma as it may get you the 3rd countdown reducer that you need!

Specific Matchups and Mulligans
I will be ranking the matchups in the following ways:

Heavily Favored/Unfavored - 65%+ winrate
Favored/Unfavored - 60% winrate
Slightly Favored/Unfavored - 55% winrate
Even - Just about 50% winrate
Note – Use Globe if you do not have a turn 2 play to fish for Aria, and use Plea if you do have a 2pp play. In general, when you have both Mainyu and Aria, but no Dogma, I choose to drop Mainyu instead for the chip damage unless you are fighting Haven in which case I drop Aria instead.

Forest – Keep any Temple Defenders or Star Torrents, then mulligan for at least a 1pp and/or 2pp play.

Aggro Forest (Slightly Unfavored) – Focus on clearing the board once you figured out he is aggro. Efficient clearing can easily win you the game. Star Torrent, Temple Defenders, and 2-for-1 trades make the life of Aggro Forest pretty hell. If you can’t deal with their wide boards early on, then no amount of slow 2-for-1 turns will save you from the fairy onslaught. Even if you stabilize, Forest has plenty of reach with Fairy Driver and Roaches.
Neutral Forest (Slightly Favored/Heavily Favored) – Neutral Forest doesn’t have many ways to deal with a lot of your followers. BnB can come too little too late, and you do have ways to banish him with Cudgel and Scripture if it come down to it. If you teched in Acolyte’s Light, then this matchup is very easy to win. In my wins against them, mounting an early offense forces them to answer with something like Cassiopeia and/or Twin Elf Assault, AND they have to draw their wincon which has been mitigated due to Staircase nerf.
OTK Forest (Heavily Unfavored) – Unless you teched in Naoise, OTK Forest usually has very efficient answers up until turn 5 or 6, but by then it is too late as they likely have a roach brigade ready. In order to deal with OTK, you’ll need to save Temple Defenders for critical turns. If you can buy time, you may be able to win by having an unanswerable board presence eventually.
Sword – Keep Temple Defender, search for 1pp and 2pp drops. If you have Dogma + Aria combo on hand, keep that. Going first, toss Blackened Scripture, going second, I would keep.

Aggro Sword (Even) – You can definitely blow them out if you go first and curve well, but going second will rely on you drawing into a lot of anti aggro cards to compete for board. In addition, Teatime actually does not kill Albert unless you target Albert with the effect, which is a huge hit to why this card is usually so strong.
Midrange Sword (Heavily Favored) – Your efficient answers will carry, and if they somehow manage to stabilize, it’s highly doubtful they have chipped you enough to stop a Seraph win. The key to winning this matchup is understanding that you will likely not win with Tempo. Midsword has a lot of ways to general huge boards quickly and/or create walls of wards. It's better to try and fight for board, and surprise them with a Seraph drop.
Rune – In order of importance, keep Aria + Dogma, then Mainyu, then Blackened Scripture. Then, mulligan for 1pp and 2pp drops.

Burn Rune (Favored) – The best way to fight off Burn Rune is to constantly contest their board. With access to banishes, you have the ability to deal with their pesky Magic Illusionist early on, and you have more than enough potential to begin to mount an offensive. Getting Aria to pop early can easily snowball you the game, and Teatime is hard for them to deal with outside of hard removal/Mutagenic Bolt. Layering evos so that the enemy cannot efficiently clear your board can play a big role in how the game plays out. For instance, if you have Mainyu, Tiger, and Pinion on the board and it is turn 4/5, you may want to evolve Mainyu over Pinion so that a defensive evo is less effective.
DShift (Favored) – If you can identify that the enemy is Dshift early on, you’ll want to play as aggressively as humanly possible making sure to drop Mainyu over any other options early on. Do NOT be afraid to play your 1pp amulets and your Arias. The only way Dshift wins the match is if they happen to draw Kaleidescope Glow, and sometimes they will need multiple to stop you. The ball is in your court to continuously threaten them. Pop all your amulets quickly and always use evo aggressively.
Dragon – Like Rune, in order of importance, keep Aria + Dogma, then Mainyu, then Blackened Scripture. Then, mulligan for 1pp and 2pp drops.

Storm/Ramp Dragon (Even) – I’d say the matchup is sadly more about what the Dragon player draws rather than what you do. You’ll want to do your best to play aggressively, while making sure to cripple Dragon’s ramp by banishing Aiela if possible. Dragon’s ‘weakness’ is from its 8pp turns and below. If they do not ramp fast enough or do not draw enough Sibyls, then it is possible for you to win by killing them outright. If the Dragon techs in Rahab and drops it before your Teatime comes up, then you will have a very hard time pushing lethal.

Now, unlike many matchup, the Dragon matchup requires you to make a judgement call on how you want to lay out the game much earlier. As early as turn 4-5, you will need to think about how you will win the game. Some matches can come down to ensuring that you are above 18hp to avoid the Dread Queen+Genesis+Arriet combo, some will be about keeping amulets on the board to discourage Bahamut, some will be about having a strong board (even if you aren’t going face) so that they do not freely storm you with Forte.

Lastly, many of the Dragon matches will go into the 8pp zone and you WILL need to Hail Mary a Seraph win. Plan ahead, and even if you can die to some combo the next turn, you have to remember that no matter how long you stall, the Dragon player has a greater number of endgame cards than you do which means that you cannot afford to stall for long before the Dragon player just goes fuck it, and goes to town on you. In general, the earlier you decided to Hail Mary, the better. Hopefully you have your combo pieces, and if you dropped Seraph on 8/9pp, then maybe you had a Teatime to distract them a bit.

The even winrate comes from the fact that this deck can win in multiple ways. If Dragon techs in Rahab (as they should be these days imo), then the matchup will go to slightly unfavored as Rahab will hardstop any aggressive pushes as early as turn 3.

Shadow – In order of importance, keep Aria + Dogma, then Blackened Scripture, then Cudgel. Then, mulligan for 1pp and 2pp drops.

Midrange Shadow (Favored) – I consider Midrange Shadow to be the only relevant meta Shadow deck that you will find and will need to really prepare for. Unlike some other matchups, Midrange Shadow is surprisingly difficult to deal with as their decks usually have excellent carddraw, very efficient ways to deal with the enemy, good finishers and sticky boards. The deck is very stable and has the ability to play both offensively and defensively which makes them very dangerous.

With Ceres, Shadow is able to immediately halt offensives, and cards like Corpse Party, Lurching Corpse, and Soul Eater are very good removal options. That said, unless they pass their early turns, you will find yourself finding for board control and banishing followers over going face. Your main win condition will be Seraph; over committing to an aggressive approach against Midshadow is the wrong move in my opinion. Remember that unless the Shadow player has a board, they cannot reach for damage with Eachtar. Keeping a relatively clean board will let you drop Seraph, and the following turns are often easy to clear even if you cannot immediately pop Seraph.

My winrate against Shadow definitely tanked thanks to learning firsthand how strong Ceres was at stopping aggro. Once I swapped to a more control approach, the matchup became significantly easier to play.

Blood – Do not mulligan with aggro in mind in this case. In order of importance, keep Aria + Dogma, then Mainyu. Then, mulligan for 1pp and 2pp drops.

Aggro Blood (HEAVILY UNFAVORABLE) – Aggro Blood is extremely hard to win against. The amount of cards that you would have to invest in stopping Aggro Blood would be upwards of 6+ cards, and would shift the deck from tempo to control. Imagine putting in Healing Angel in the deck. It does nothing proactive in any other matchups. In many other aggressive matchups, you want to use efficient 2-for-1s and clears to outvalue your opponent. However, in the Aggro Blood matchup, you are constantly on the defensive because your turns 1-3 are generally weak as you wait for your amulets to pop, which gives the Blood player ample time to get chip damage in.

Even if you do get a board (such as Mainyu into Temple Defender), they have plenty of ways to kill the ward, they have the more favorable option to go face because a lot of their reach is out of hand damage in the form of both spells and storm. Aggro Blood is able to even put themselves into Vengeance safely because you will have a hard time pushing 10 damage in a single turn at any given time, meanwhile they have options like Emeralda and Dark General once they tap into vengeance.

There’s no point in teching for this matchup in my opinion. Do you best to either race them with Aria drops, or to efficiently clear with 2-for-1s, but don't get too sad about the 30%~ winrate. Can't win them all!

Control Blood (Favored) – Mount an offensive early, which should be easy enough since Control Blood’s early turns tend to be pretty weak. The most important thing to understand is that you should not over commit to aggression and should not take them into vengeance. Their options open up way too much once vengeance is up for you to keep up with. In fact, taking them into vengeance prematurely can end with you being smorced by efficient Emeralda storms that you have to answer. Usually I float them at about 13 hp, and build a board until I can actually kill them. Often I will use a maximum of 1 evo when pushing aggression. If they manage to get going with good Blood Moon turns or something, then you need to swap to a control style and win with Seraph. Don’t worry about Odin, there’s no playing around him anyways.

The only way you really lose this is if you brick or if you overcommit.

Haven – In order of importance, keep Aria + Dogma, then Mainyu. Then, mulligan for 1pp and 2pp drops.

Aegis Haven (Heavily Favored) – Aegis is one of the easiest matchups for Seraph. Start aggressively, but once you have I dentified that it isn’t Storm, make sure to keep combo pieces and search for Seraph by opting to play your 1pp amulets over playing followers. Aegis Haven has very little reach, often takes removal and heals, which means that even leaving up a minion can be fine. Don’t bother smorcing, just focus on carddraw and defensive evos. The fact of the matter is that Seraph wins one turn earlier than they can even attack with Aegis.
Elana Haven (Heavily Favored) – Elana Haven and Aegis overlap a lot, but the current versions of Elana are probably significantly more threatening. Do everything in your power to draw answers and evo defensively. The only way you win is with Seraph, and the only way you survive is off the back of defensive evos and Themis. That said, it’s not very hard to get a board big enough to deal with what Elana’s Tenko turns. The deck is inconsistent which puts the matchup significantly in your favor.
Storm Haven (Slightly Unfavored) – Fighting against Storm Haven is pretty tricky as your early plays are pretty similar, except they can spawn more chip damage. I believe that whoever goes first has the significant advantage. I play this matchup by playing chicken and constantly going for face. Storm Haven will often include cards like Heavenly Hound and Snow White, which slow them down a good bit in this matchup, and your Temple Defender can stop early pushes from Pinions. That said, there’s no reason for me to rate this matchup theoretically favorable. I believe my significantly positive winrates against Storm is due to many Storm decks being piloted poorly or being unoptimized.
Comparisons between Control and Tempo Seraph
While this post is primarily advocating Tempo Seraph, I call Seraph is the queen of adaptation for a very good reason. You can play Control Seraph to some success, but it is important to understand fundamental differences in matchups when you choose to do so. I will use a recently posted Masters’ list by /u/TimelyPuns in order to serve as an example of a control list and ways I think it can be improved. His post can be found here

This list is similar to most Control Seraph lists with some very interesting additions. The Idea behind Control Seraph is to proactively wall off aggressive plays, trade defensively, and have efficient removals. The problem with this style right now is that many of the meta decks win with combos (Ramp/Storm Dragon, OTK Forest), out of hand chip damage (Burn Rune, Aggro Blood), and wide boards (Midrange Shadow, Aggro Forest). Control Seraph lists have the potential to deal with aggressive decks, which can be warded and healed against, and midrange decks which can be cleared by Haven’s premium removal like Tribunal and Themis.

That said, right now, I feel like there is a healthy balance of deck types on ladder, and teching towards one end of the spectrum will leave you open on the other end too much. This is one of the cases where opting to have an overall stable deck is better than target focusing a matchup. The fact that Control Seraph has almost always skewed towards trying to ‘attack’ some part of the meta, thus dropping its overall effectiveness across other parts of the meta is why I believe Control Seraph is weaker and has always been considered notoriously unreliable.

If you didn’t click his post, here is an image of his decklist.

Like I said, there are reasons to play Control Seraph, like maybe you are bringing it to a tournament or you have a read on the ranked meta. But, if you’re going to play Control Seraph, you gotta do it right man!

First, the elephants in the room, Monk of Purification and Star Priestess. Monk is TOO slow. Not only does he do nothing when you drop him turn 6, but in order to access his benefits, you have to ‘pay’ 2pp for each monastic holy water. It is a 10pp investment that you cannot utilize on the same turn until turn 10. If you are trying to heal, you’ll want it immediately. And if you are trying to draw, there are more efficient options. Radiance Angel and Judge of Retribution serve similar roles to Monk of Purification except they do it significantly better and they do what they need to immediately. Star Priestess sounds pretty cool until you realize she only has a measly 2/3 body at 6pp, AND using her potentially locks your board. Resummoning Globe is not going to help you for instance. Popping Aria fills up 4 slots of you board from this play alone, in a deck that will only use the Pinion to defensively clear anyways. Maybe you use Star Priestess to pop Tribunal, but the overall net gain is a 2/3 body and removal, which is hardly notable. I do not think either of these cards has a place in Control Seraph.

Second, I discussed this earlier, but Prism Priestess is extremely slow. Plea is better at drawing cards and is 1pp, Temple Defender is a better body at 3pp. Prism Priestess is the compromise that does not help in any matchup. Combining the idea of carddraw for fuel, and a body to deal with aggro is not worth it.

Third, this deck is carrying 9 combo cards and 3 Seraphs. This can probably cut down to at least 7 or 8 combo cards, and the number of Seraphs should be reduced to 2. Remember that Globe is a very cheap pseudo-tutor, and that you have 8 turns to draw Seraph. There is more than enough time to draw Seraph. Your resources are better allocated to having proper answers to actually last until then.

Lastly, for a deck that is carrying Unica, Healing Prayer, Cleric Lancer, and Monk of Purification, there is a strange lack of early game wards where stopping the enemy is most relevant. The addition of Temple Defender/Grimnir, Healing Angel, and Radiance Angel would have been welcome additions.

I think the best part of this list is the Cleric Lancer. If you survive long enough to plop one down, aggro basically MUST have hard removal to deal with it. In addition, OTK Forest which was supposed to be a hard matchup is very smartly countered by Cleric Lancer. Even with hard removal, OTK Forest can crumble to multiple Cleric Lancers since this deck is able to more reliably draw them.

Using his deck as a base, I would run something like this.

This deck has enough heals and carddraw fuel to kill off most aggro pushes. Seraph already inherently wins many slower control matchups like Control Blood and Aegis/Elana by simply existing. The addition of Cleric Lancer helps with both aggro and some combo matchups like OTK Roach. The single Aether acts like a 4th Cleric lancer. I have thought about adding other cards like White Swan as well, but I have not put in sufficient time to grind the Control list to fully refine the list.

Closing Remarks
This Seraph represents a very significant shift in how Seraph is traditionally played. It’s a revolution just as Rotation is on the horizon! Regardless, I am glad that I have come up with this deck because it is by far, the best, and most stable variant of Seraph that I have created, and I have played Seraph since she was created. The addition of an alternative win condition does away with so much of Seraph’s old problems of being entirely reactive. Even playing defensively, this deck looks like it playing offensively!

It is likely I will still play Seraph in Unlimited, but this may be my last extensive post on Seraph. I think that Rotation is healthy for the game, and I'd like to try it. If I can find something I enjoy playing as much as Seraph, then I would like to keep playing in Standard as well, but if not, then you may see me back again with posts for Unlimited Seraph.

Questions and comments are welcome as always.

Until next time. May your prayers be heard! Let Seraph bring you victory!

EDIT: Apparently the post is too long, so I can't add significant paragraphs on Dark Jeanne and Pinions, but they are okay.
